# How to Read This Book

Since Nutils is a library for the development of numerical simulations, this
book assumes that the reader is familiar with differential calculus, Galerkin
methods, and the Finite Element Method. If this is not the case, chances are
that Nutils is not the tool they are looking for.

First time users who are eager to get their feet wet will want to begin with
the [getting started guide](start.md) and build a functioning Poisson solver in
three easy steps, no questions asked. Following this, beginners are strongly
advised to follow the hands on [tutorial](tutorial.md) to gain an an in-depth
understanding of Nutils concepts and get familiar with the syntax.

Novices and advanced users alike may find interest in the [installation
guide](install.md), which ranges from basic [installation
instructions](install-nutils.md) to tips and tricks for [optimizing the
installation](install-performance.md), instructions for running a [Docker style
container](install-containers.md), and suggestions for [computing
remotely](install-remote.md).

The [release history](release.md) provides an overview of changes between
releases. This is the place to monitor for long term users who want to keep up
to date with the latest and greatest new features. The release pages also
provide links to the relevant API reference where all Nutils functions are
documented.

Anybody looking to build their own Nutils simulations are encouraged to browse
through the [example projects](examples.md). Most simulations will have
components in common with existing scripts, so a mix-and-match approach is a
good way to start building your own. In case questions do remain, the [support
page](support.md) lists ways of getting in touch with developers.

Finally, the [science](science.md) section provides an overview of
[publications](science-publications.md) that use Nutils in their research.
Reproducing results from these articles is a great starting point for follow-up
research, as well as good scientific practice in its own right. Help others
do the same by [citing Nutils](science-citing.md) in your own publications!
